The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Negro and American Liberty, by John
Moore

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Negro and American Liberty

Author: John Moore

Release Date: September 17, 2021 [eBook #66329]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: hekula03, Paul Clark and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by the Library of Congress)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NEGRO AND AMERICAN LIBERTY ***




                               THE NEGRO
                         AND AMERICAN LIBERTY.

                                 1895:
                    PUBLISHED BY PROF. JOHN MOORE,
                             BOSTON, MASS.




[Illustration: CRISPUS ATTUCKS. (From the “Bostonian.”)]




                           B. WILKINS & CO.,
                               PRINTERS,
                        93 FEDERAL ST., BOSTON.




WHAT THE NEGRO HAS DONE FOR LIBERTY IN AMERICA.

BY PROF. JOHN MOORE.


It seems like a paradox to speak of the Negro as efficiently related
to the cause of freedom in America. He was brought here and forced
into slavery, in which condition he was held most of the time since
the country was settled. He was treated not as a human being, but as
property to be used only for the advantage of his oppressors. Some
became free, but North as well as South, they were largely shut out
from the opportunities for industry and general improvement of their
condition. They were under a social ban and not recognized as equal to
their fellowmen of a different complexion. After suffering from such
treatment for generations it could hardly be expected that Negroes
would feel much enthusiasm in the cause of popular liberty on account
of the wrongs they suffered, and the seeming hopelessness of ever
getting their rights.

But notwithstanding this the colored man displayed an intense love of
freedom, and a willingness to fight and make sacrifice for the common
cause of human liberty, even when his own prospect of sharing in it,
was not promising. White men, generally assuming that they had the
special right to the monopoly of that blessing.

In this the Negro showed a magnanimity and noble manhood, never
surpassed by those of any other race. The time is coming when due
justice will be done to our African brothers by the patriotic
historian, which has not yet been accorded.

It would require volumes to record what the colored man has done for
the cause of liberty in this country. A presentation of a few of the
facts cannot but tend to fire our patriotism as well as revive in our
memories the important part our colored country-men have acted in
achieving the liberties we now enjoy.

In 1770 an important event took place in Boston. There was a massacre
on King Street now called State. Several men were shot by British
soldiers. The most conspicuous figure there was Crispus Attucks,
a Negro, who lost his life. Years before he had been a slave in
Framingham and escaped from his master. Several advertisements were
published in the _Boston Gazette_, with ample rewards for his capture;
but he was not seized. Twenty years after he came to Boston. When
the British soldiers were insulting and oppressing the true American
patriots, Attucks appeared as the leader to the first resistance to
their tyranny. On March 5th, 1770, Attucks as the leader shouted: “The
way to get rid of these soldiers is to attack the main guard; strike
at the root, there is the nest.” When the British soldiers fired,
Attucks was the first to fall. The body of this hero with that of
another who fell, lay in Fanueil Hall, while others were buried from
their homes. The funeral was said to have been the largest ever known
in this country. Daniel Webster said: “From that moment we may date the
severance of the British Empire.”

At the battle of Bunker Hill, Major Pitcairn was killed, which proved
to be a serious loss to the British. It was he who was the chief
commander of the forces that went out to Lexington and Concord at the
time of the famous fight there. He fell at the hands of private Peter
Salem of Colonel Nixon’s regiment of the Continental Army. This Negro
soldier’s claim to this honor could not be disputed. There was another
Negro soldier who distinguished himself, Salem Poor, and displayed such
valor that fourteen American officers called the attention of Congress
to his merits. The memorial was dated at Cambridge, December 5, 1775,
and stated “that under our own observation, we declare that a Negro man
called Salem Poor, of Colonel Frye’s regiment, Captain Ames’ company,
in the late battle at Charlestown behaved like an experienced officer
as well as an excellent soldier. To set forth the particulars of his
conduct would be tedious. We would only beg leave to say, in the person
of this said Negro, centres a brave and gallant soldier. The reward due
to so great and distinguished a character we submit to the Congress.”

The army organized at Cambridge under General Washington, had from
the start colored men in it. The historian Bancroft states that free
Negroes stood in the ranks by the side of white men. All through the
Revolution the colored man performed a very important part, for which
very little credit has ever been given him.

At the battle of Long Island in 1776, Negroes fought bravely, and
many fell. Theodore Parker, once in alluding to the discovery of the
remains of these, remarked: “Now after seventy-five years have passed
by, the bones of the forgotten victims of the Revolution are shovelled
up by Irish laborers, carted off, and shot into the sea, as rubbish
of the town. Had they been white men’s relics, how they would have
been honored with sumptuous burial anew, and the purchased prayers and
preaching of Christian divines! Now they are the rubbish of the street.”

In the war of 1812, the Negro performed heroic service on land and on
the water. Commodore Perry said that Negroes in the navy seemed to
be absolutely insensible to danger. General Jackson gave them great
credit for their efficient services. He solicited and welcomed them
into the service of their country. In September, 1814, he issued a
proclamation, which contained the words: “As sons of freedom, you are
now called upon to defend our most inestimable blessing. As Americans
your country looks with confidence to her adopted children for a
valorous support.”

In the war of the Rebellion the colored man performed a very prominent
and heroic part. This furnished on a large scale an opportunity to show
his loyalty and courage, and he met the highest expectations which had
been cherished by his friends.

For two years the war had been carried on by the North on the principle
of saving the Union without interfering with slavery, which was really
at the bottom of the whole trouble. While that policy was pursued the
prospect of success seemed dark. Slaves in several cases ran away and
came into the Union forces for protection, but in several instances
were sent back. General Butler after awhile declared that kind of
property to be contraband of war. After that the rebels did not have
many of the “contrabands” forced back by our soldiers. After the
proclamation of emancipation was issued, victory seemed to turn on the
side of the Union forces, and defeat on the other side. That step for
the freedom of 4,000,000 of slaves, was announced as an act of justice
and a military necessity.

On the side of the North, negroes for a considerable time had not been
allowed to use a shovel or shoulder a musket in behalf of the cause
of freedom. Some predicted that if so allowed they would not begin to
compare in efficiency with the white man. The experiment proved a grand
success.

One of the most joyous days of my life, was that in which the first
Negro regiment marched through the streets of Boston, after having been
reviewed on the Common. That was the Massachusetts Fifty-fourth, which
made such a noble record afterwards. This was in May, 1863. Four flags
were presented to it, one by young colored ladies of Boston; a national
ensign presented by a society of colored ladies; another by ladies and
gentlemen friends of the regiment; and another flag by relatives of the
late Lieut. Putnam. One of the emblematic banners had inscribed on it:
“Liberty, Loyalty and Unity.” This regiment did noble service for their
country. General Strong said of the Negro troops that charged on Fort
Wagner: “The Fifty-fourth did well and nobly, only the fall of Colonel
Shaw prevented them from entering the fort. They moved up as gallantly
as any troops could, and with their enthusiasm they deserve a better
fate.”

Generally the Negro troops acquitted themselves most creditably as
soldiers. Stanton, Secretary of War, said of them at Petersburg: “The
hardest fighting was done by the black troops. The parts they stormed
were the worst of all. After the affair was over, Gen. Smith went to
thank them, and tell them he was proud of their courage and dash. He
says they cannot be exceeded as soldiers.”

There were in all 178,975 Negro soldiers in the United States
Volunteers, and of these 38,847 were killed, wounded and missing.
They took part in 449 battles. Besides the large military force there
were 150,000 Negro laborers in other departments. When Cincinnati
was threatened with an invasion, 706 colored citizens volunteered
to construct military roads and fortifications, and were known as
“The Black Brigade of Cincinnati.” Many of the members afterwards
entered military service. Had I space I might speak of the brilliant
achievements of Robert Small and others on the sea. Of William Tillman
the _New York Tribune_ said: “To this colored man was the nation
indebted for the first vindication of its honor on the sea.”

The Negro has two elements in his nature which render him specially
susceptible to civilization and patriotism, namely, the religious
sentiment and music. Without these there cannot be an exalted
patriotism. During the Rebellion the colored people of the South had
as by a sort of inspiration an impression that they were going to be
freed. They sang and prayed with that idea before them. They believed
that “Father Linkum” was to be their Moses, and they would soon be set
at liberty. Under the influence of this they were patient and hopeful.
They prayed for the success of the Northern army, and their songs were
inspired by the love and hope of freedom.

I will conclude by mentioning an incident which occurred on old Fort
Plantation, Port Royal. There was a grove there of live oaks, in one
of which was a seat, on which a Boston minister had sat while writing
a book on the beauties of slavery, called the “South-side View.” On
the first day of January, 1863, the commanding officer of the Union
forces appointed a meeting in that grove, at which the declaration
of emancipation would be read. There was quite a program marked out,
but which was somewhat interrupted by a remarkable incident. When the
proclamation was read, the many Negroes present suddenly broke out
singing the national hymn: “My country ’tis of thee; Sweet land of
liberty.” That hymn they never could sing before, and now that they
were free they sang it with swelling hearts; but how they learned it
was unknown. Their hearts thrilled with joy at the thought of being
free, and rose in gratitude to God.




Transcriber's Note:

Every effort has been made to replicate this text as faithfully as
possible.

Italic text has been marked with _underscores_.

On page 7, in “the religious sentiment”, “religious” is a correction
of “religous”.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NEGRO AND AMERICAN LIBERTY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
